hello everybody I am dr. Alvarez and
welcome to the question of the week this
week we'll talk about why my risks are
higher for converting a lap band to a
gastric sleeve as you know a sleeve is a
very safe and very effective procedure
if you're having weight loss surgery as
an initial procedure but if you're
converting from a previous procedure
like the Lap Band or an adjustable
gastric band to a gastric sleeve which
is known as revision surgery then this
will change the safety and the results
down the road of the sleeve procedure
and we will go over these reasons the
main reason why the risks of
complications will will raise will be
higher in a revision surgery is due to
scar tissue the Lap Band will cause and
develop scar tissue along with adhesions
and even a capsule around the band and
the upper part of the stomach converting
this into a sleeve will involve cutting
stapling and or sewing over the staple
line close to that tissue that is not in
an optimal condition as it may be too
thick for the staples to hold therefore
as surgeons we remove this this this
tissue the band around the capsule and
adhesions to help prepare for this
conversion a patient having surgery must
understand that these risks involved the
risks may be even higher or even
impossible to convert from the Lap Band
to the gastric sleeve if patients have
had complications with a band like a
band erosion or a slippage this may be
the case where patients will have to go
through a two-step approach to convert
from one per
teacher - a gastric sleeve this means
that we'll have to go into surgery and
the patient the patient does not have
tissues in a good condition they may
have to get the BAM removed and then the
surgeon will prepare the stomach for a
second approach and in the next few
months to see if the sleeve is possible
the other factor is weight loss remember
that the band will have a small pouch on
top of the band where the width that the
food holds for a while and then
digesting them passes down through the
band to the rest of the stomach with
time patients may overeat or can it can
be too tight that may cause a stretched
pouch on top of this on top of the band
patients who would develop this pouch
will have poor weight loss than a
regular sleeve patient because they are
used to holding food in this specific
pouch or this specific area for longer
periods of time without the sensation of
feeling fool or even feeling nausea in
other words they develop this sort of
tolerance in this pouch the food will be
digested and then go through the sleeve
but the amount of calories that the
patient consumes will be greater than
the average sleeve person so I hope this
clears a lot of doubts that's it for the
question of the week be sure to
subscribe to our videos we'll play some
links here you can contact me for future
videos and updates so thanks for
watching
you